---
permalink: /experience/
title: "Experience"
---

<h1 align="left"> IGT Solutions </h1>
<h2 align="left"> Data Scientist </h2>
<h3 align="left"> January 2025 – June 2025 </h3>
<h4 align="left"> Bogota, Colombia </h4>

<h5 align="justify">
 Main funcionts: 
 
- Develop statistical models and AI algorithms to predictive analytics solutions.
- Analyze databases and Big Data to extract information and drive decision making.
- Collaborating with finance and operations teams, to integrate data results into business strategies.</h5>

<h1 align="left"> Centro de Estudos Ambientais (CEA) </h1>
<h2 align="left"> Researcher in Geosciences </h2>
<h3 align="left"> January 2024 – December 2024 </h3>
<h4 align="left"> Sao Paulo, Brazil </h4>

<h5 align="justify">
 Main funcionts: 
 
- Support to CEA in the implementation of Geographic Information Systems (GIS) using ArcGIS and its derivatives (ArcGIS Pro,
ArcGIS Online and ArcGIS Web Apps).
- Development of programming codes in JavaScript and Google Earth Engine related to surface and groundwater
monitoring, water balance, and hydrometeorological phenomena.
- Prediction of possible scenarios of water shortage and water shortage using Autoregressive Neural Networks (NNAR) in
Rstudio.
- Participation and follow-up in the Monitoring Rooms of the Paranapanema River Water System (CBH Paranapanema).
- Technical visits to cartography, climatology, and hydrology laboratories.
- Support in the preparation, writing, and publication of academic articles in international journals related to water and
natural resources.</h5>

<h1 align="left"> Laboratory of Water Resources and Environmental Isotopes (LARHIA) </h1>
<h2 align="left"> Researcher in Geosciences </h2>
<h3 align="left"> November 2022 – November 2023 </h3>
<h4 align="left"> Sao Paulo, Brazil </h4>

<h5 align="justify">
 Main funcionts: 

  - Acquisition of satellite images with hydrological variables from GPM and FLDAS geospatial systems.
- Creation and management of geodatabases and mosaic datasets of meteorological data (precipitation, temperature, and
potential evapotranspiration).
- Development of scripts in ArcGIS API for Python for the geoprocessing of satellite images and mosaic datasets.
- Spatial and temporal analysis between 2001 and 2023 of precipitation and ETP in ArcGIS Pro using geostatistical
interpolation techniques (IDW and Kriging).
- Modeling, training and simulations of water availability in dams and reservoirs in ArcGIS API for Python using Artificial
intelligence algorithms: LSTM and ResCNN networks.
- Publication on GitHub of the scripts and data used in the research projects ascribed to the LARHIA group.
- Elaboration of basic and thematic cartography using ArcGIS Online.
- Preparation of reports and technical presentations for the LARHIA academic events.
- Technical visits to water bodies (rivers, dams, lakes, etc.) installed in the Paranapanema River Basin (PRB).</h5>

<h1 align="left"> Geoscience and Remote Sensing Society (GRSS) </h1>
<h2 align="left"> Researcher in Geosciences, Chapter Colombia UDFJC </h2>
<h3 align="left"> October 2021 – October 2022 </h3>
<h4 align="left"> Bogota, Colombia </h4>

<h5 align="justify">
 Main funcionts: 
  
- Morphometric characterization of hydrographic basins using geospatial and remote sensing data.
- Analysis of bioclimatic projections using the ArcGIS Maps SDK for JavaScript.
- Accompaniment and support to GRSS group activities (meetings, technical visits, and reports).
- Development of basic and advanced thematic cartography in QGIS and ArcGIS Pro.</h5>

<h1 align="left"> Gestion Predial de Colombia (PREDCOL SAS) </h1>
<h2 align="left"> GIS Assistant </h2>
<h3 align="left"> August 2021 – January 2022 </h3>
<h4 align="left"> Bogota, Colombia </h4>

<h5 align="justify">
 Main funcionts: 

- Processing and analysis of drone images in Agisoft Metashape.
- Creation of orthomosaics and orthoimages of drones.
- Generation of cartographic products such as Maps and Digital Elevation Models (DEM).
- Elaboration and delivery of technical reports PREDCOL group.</h5>

<h1 align="left"> Laboratory of Astronomy and Geospatial Information Technologies (LatitUD) </h1>
<h2 align="left"> Research mentor </h2>
<h3 align="left"> June 2020 – July 2021 </h3>
<h4 align="left"> Bogota, Colombia </h4>

<h5 align="justify">
 Main funcionts: 

- Analysis of vegetation and land use using satellite images and NVDI, MNDWI and AWEI index.
- Calculation of the Standardized Precipitation Index (SPI), Palmer Drought Severity Index (PDSI) in C++ and R.
- Evaluation of the threat, vulnerability and risk due to drought using hydrometeorological indices (SPI and PDSI).
- Presentation and defense of the degree project in Cadastral Engineering and Geodesy “Methodology of evaluation and
forecast of the drought phenomenon in the Municipality of Motavita, Department of Boyaca”.</h5>

